101;Religious Places;Hathee Singh Temple;Constructed in the year 1850 AD, Hathee Singh temple is a very famous Jain temple. It has been named after its founder Seth Hathee Singh, a prosperous Jain merchant. Hathee Singh Jain temple of Ahmedabad was built in the dedication of the 15th Jain Trithanakara named Dharmnath. The temple is known for its fabulous architectural styling and designing that consists of intricate carvings.It is an architectural marvel that has been built using beautiful white marbles. Hathee Singh Jain temple is a double storied construction that has a dome on the front side. The other two sides of the temple consist of lavishly carved out galleries. The temple built by Hathising is one of the most splendid Jain temples of India. The temple has a cemented courtyard that is enclosed by a row of cloisters, which contains 52 holy places. Each of the shrines consists of an image of a Tirthankara. Well, Hathee Singh Jain temple is certainly worth a visit.
102;Religious Places;Akshardham Temple;A specimen of fine craftsmanship, the Akshardham temple in Gandhinagar is one of the largest and most prominent temples in the entire state of Gujarat. Located in Gandhinagar city, the famous Akshardham temple is a place, which consists of a number of things under one roof like art, education, architecture, exhibitions and research. It is truly an architectural masterpiece.Established in the year 1992, the Akshardham temple was built in the dedication of Lord Swaminarayan. The credit for laying the foundation of the famous Akshardham temple at Gandhinahar goes to the Bochasanwasi Akshar-Purushottam Swaminarayan Sanstha (BAPS). The highlights of the temple consist of the seven feet long idol of Lord Swaminarayan, the chief deity at the Akshardham temple.
103;Religious Places;Sidi Sayed Mosque;Located near Lal Darwaza in Ahmedabad, the mosque of Sidi Sayed is one of the most prominent mosques in the Ahmedabad city. Constructed in the year 1573, the mosque was established by Sidi Sayed, a slave of Sultan Ahmed Shah. Sidi Sayed mosque in Ahmedabad, India consists of ten semi circular windows, the appeal of which is accentuated by the splendid mesh covering them, which is more popularly known as 'Jali'.This monument has gained a worldwide recognition, due to its splendor. This skillfully carved mosque is truly the one of its kinds in the whole world. The Jali screen windows represent the Indo-Saracenic styling, which is admired by people all over the world. Consisting of delicately carved windows, the mosque is known for its stone tracery. The construction work of the Sidi Sayed mosque was taken up in the last year of the Sultanate rule in Gujarat.
104;Religious Places;Ahmedabad Swaminarayan Temple;The first and foremost Swaminarayan temple was built at Kalupur in Ahmedabad. Being the most prominent temple, it is always thronged by people. People come from different parts of the country and congregate here in this temple to seek the blessings of the deity. Dedicated to Lord Swaminarayan, the temple boasts of its exquisite wooden carvings.The structural design of the Ahmedabad Swaminarayan temple is mesmerizing. The interiors and exteriors of the temple have been adorned with the typical Gujarati designs that depict different aspects of the Gujarati culture and lifestyle. The architectural style of the temple is commendable and truly has an unbeatable charm. Standing royally behind the huge gates across the Relief road, the Swaminarayan temple of Ahmedabad has beautifully decorated domes and galleries.
105;Religious Places;Sarkhej Roza;A reminder of Ahmedabad’s majestic past, Sarkhej Roza is a mosque, tomb and palace complex dedicated to the memory of the famous sufi saint and Sultan Ahmed Shah’s spiritual advisor, Ahmed Khatti Ganj Baksh. The elegant yet dilapidated buildings cluster around a great tank and were often used as a retreat by several of Ahmedabad’s rulers. Comprising of grand prayer halls, stately domes, sprawling courtyards and geometric jalis that cast shifting patterns of light on the floor—the mosque is a true testament to brilliant architecture. It’s often known as Ahmedabad’s Acropolis due to French architect Le Corbusier’s famous comparison of the mosque’s design to that of the Acropolis at Athens in Greece.
106;Religious Places;The Rani Sipri ki Masjid;THIS is near the Astoria Gate on the South-east side of the city. Unfortunately, its position prevents its being seen to advantage: it stands with its south-west corner to the street, which is much lower than the platform on which both it and the mausoleum stand. Râni Sipri was the wife of one of the sons of Ahmad Shah, and doubtless the daughter of some Hindu chief; and, as was usually the case, the tomb and its necessary adjunct the mosk were probably built by herself during her lifetime. They were completed Anno Hejira 835 (i.e. A.D.1432).The mosk is hall, open to the east, about 54 feet in lengh over all, and 20 feet wide. The roof is supported by two rows of six double columns, and the towers at the front corners are about 50 feet high.
107;Famous Places;Sabarmati Ashram;Dubbed as the second home of Mahatma Gandhi, Sabarmati Ashram is a Spartan colony of tiled houses in Ahmedabad. The place has historical importance as it is considered that it was from here Gandhi orchestrated the final struggle of independence. Here one has the opportunity to witness his cottage called the Hriday Ashram, which has been well-maintained by the authority. One can still see Gandhi’s personal items like round eyeglasses, wooden slippers, letters and books.
108;Famous Places;The Pols;Pols are the tightly packed conglomeration of houses, built to ensure safety and security of the people. Ideally, a pol would have one or two entrances and secret exits, which only the people residing in the Pol would know about. In Gujarat, pols can be found at many places; however, the pols in the old city of Ahmedabad are its best example. The most famed pol is situated near the Manek Chowk. In many pols, one would find a personal temple built at the centre and chabutro (tall poles placed for bird feeding). Today, many pols have been converted into cottage industries, so one may find people on the steps hand-sewing books or crimping the silver. Visiting these pols in the Old City is a one of its kind experience in Ahmedabad.
109;Famous Places;Teen Darwaza;Situated southeast of the Bhadra Fort, the Teen Darwaza (Triple Gateway) was the entrance to the Royal Square or Maidan Shahi where the royal processions and polo games were once held. Today, the Teen Darwaza straddles the road, which is replete with shops selling block prints, silverware and other small items.
110;Famous Places;Kankaria Lake;Reckoned to be the largest lake in Ahmedabad, Kankaria Lake is located in the southern part of the city. The lake is an ideal picnic spot for families as the lakefront has been developed into an entertainment zone as it has features like a zoo, toy train, kids’ city, tethered balloon ride, water rides, water park, food stalls, and other entertainment facilities. Even a week-long festival is celebrated here each year in the last week of December.
111;Famous Places;Nalsarovar Bird Sanctuary;About 60kms from Ahmedabad, Nal Sarovar is reckoned to be one of the largest bird sanctuaries in India. Sprawling over an area of 115 sq km, Nal Lake and the surrounding marshy forests attract about 250 species of waterfowls like flamingoes, geese, cranes, pelicans, storks, cormorants, spoonbills and ibis. In winters many migratory birds like Bluish-grey demoiselle crane gather here in large numbers from Siberia. Also, Nal Sarovar is the best place to catch sight of Sarus Crane, who performs a synchronized dance that involves bowing down with its wings outstretched. This bird sanctuary makes for an ideal weekend getaway from Ahmedabad as it allows one to get closer to nature and away from the hustle and bustle of city life
112;Famous Places;Manek Chowk;Manek is a prominent city square in Ahmedabad. Located in the old city, this place is more than a chaotic square. Manek chowk is surrounded by many historical buildings and has a bustling multi-purpose market. It is ideal to visit Manek Chowk in the night time when it converts into a food lovers’ paradise, where one can relish the taste of authentic Gujrati street food. Baba Maneknath Temple, Badshah no Hajiro, Rani no Hajiro, Ahmedabad Stock Exchange Building and Mahurat Pol are all present in the vicinity of Manek Chowk.
113;Famous Places;Vastrapur Lake;Located in the western part of Ahmedabad and surrounded by greenery, Vastrapur Lake is an alluring attraction. With green lawns all around it, it also serves as a venue for cultural events. Joggers and walkers can spend their time taking rounds of the pathway that encircles the lake while water lovers can make the most of their visit by going boating. Others can just sit and relax by the lake while having a good time with their family and friends. The beautiful gardens surrounding the lake with stone work are an added attraction. It’s an ideal place for a family getaway. Opening Closing Time : 8 am to 10 pm every day.
114;Famous Places;Parimal Garden;Located right in the centre of the city, Parimal Garden is a haven for nature lovers. It’s a lovely place with flower spreads and lush greenery, making it an ideal venue for a family outing. Kids will definitely love this place for its play area with a number of slides and swings. The garden also has a walking trail that is almost always abuzz with walkers and joggers. Parimal Garden transforms itself in the evening with colourful lights and fountains. Opening Closing Time : 8 am to 10 pm daily
115;Religious Places;Rani Rupmati Mosque;Established by Sultan Mehmud Beghara and named after his Hindu wife, Rani Rupmati Mosque features splendid domes, carved galleries and beautiful minarets. The central dome is slightly elevated and hence illuminates the mosque by allowing natural light to come in and make it look spectacular.The feature that makes it stand apart from other mosques is the perfect blend of Hindu and Muslim architecture. One of the minarets of the mosque got destroyed in a calamity that hit Ahmedabad. However, the mosque’s ceiling and prayer hall have intricate carvings that add aesthetic value to the structure.Opening Closing Time : 9 am to 8 pm on all days of the week
116;Religious Places;Vaishnodevi Temple;A replica of the original shrine of Vaishnodevi in Jammu, this temple is also thronged by devotees with equal reverence. It is 50 feet in diameter and the temple premises echo with chants of Jai Mata Di at any given time through the year.Opening Closing Time : 5 am to 10 pm
117;Malls;AlphaOne Mall;AlphaOne Mall is the largest shopping mall in the city. It was opened in October 2011 at Vastrapur in Ahmedabad. It was developed by Alpha G Corp Development Pvt Ltd as part of their expansion. There are total three floors with a floor area of 1,200,000 sq ft.Attractions: Hypercity, Shoppers Stop, Madura, Estelle, Color Fab, Food Court and Multiplex.Address: Plot No-216, Vastrapur, Ahmedabad, Gujarat 380006
118;Malls;Himalaya Mall;Himalaya Mall is another major shopping mall in the city. It is situated in the heart of city i.e. Drive-in Road in Memnagar. There are so many attractions in the city such as Big Bazaar, Imagine, Crossword, Subway, Welhome, Papa John’s, McDonald’s and The Loot.Address: Drive-in Road, Nilmani Society, Memnagar, Ahmedabad. Tel. 079 3012 5952
119;Malls;Iscon Mega Mall;Iscon Mega Mall is the most popular brand name in the city. It is located near Rajpath Club on the SG Highway in Bodakdev. There are so many popular brands are available in the mall such as Reliance Mart, The Raymond Shop, World of Titan, Just In Vogue, Kids Studio, Greenfibre, Van Heusen, Peter England and many others. It is must to visit place and spend you precious time there.Address: Sarkhej – Gandhi nagar Highway, Bodakdev, Ahmedabad – 380 054
120;Malls;Ahmedabad Central Mall;Ahmedabad Central Mall is another much marketed shopping destination in the city. It is located in the heart of the city i.e. CG Road. If you love eating then there are so many shopping points are available in the mall. For example, Oven and Grills, Havmor Ice Cream, Food Court, Chatoree – The Chat Ghar and others.Address: Panchavati Society, CG Road, Ambawadi, Ahmedabad – 380 006
121;Malls;10 Acres Shopping Mall;10 Acres Shopping Mall is one of the fastest growing shopping destinations in the city. It is located near Kankaria Lake in eastern Ahmedabad. 10 Acres Mall have many popular brands in the mall such as Barcelona, Pantaloons, Liverpool Fashions, Reliance Trends, Big Bazaar, Gotti and others.Address: Raipur Kankaria Road, Opposite Arya Samaj Mandir, Ahmedabad
122;Heritage;Hathee Singh Temple;Constructed in the year 1850 AD, Hathee Singh temple is a very famous Jain temple. It has been named after its founder Seth Hathee Singh, a prosperous Jain merchant. Hathee Singh Jain temple of Ahmedabad was built in the dedication of the 15th Jain Trithanakara named Dharmnath. The temple is known for its fabulous architectural styling and designing that consists of intricate carvings.It is an architectural marvel that has been built using beautiful white marbles. Hathee Singh Jain temple is a double storied construction that has a dome on the front side. The other two sides of the temple consist of lavishly carved out galleries. The temple built by Hathising is one of the most splendid Jain temples of India. The temple has a cemented courtyard that is enclosed by a row of cloisters, which contains 52 holy places. Each of the shrines consists of an image of a Tirthankara. Well, Hathee Singh Jain temple is certainly worth a visit.
123;Heritage;Akshardham Temple;A specimen of fine craftsmanship, the Akshardham temple in Gandhinagar is one of the largest and most prominent temples in the entire state of Gujarat. Located in Gandhinagar city, the famous Akshardham temple is a place, which consists of a number of things under one roof like art, education, architecture, exhibitions and research. It is truly an architectural masterpiece.Established in the year 1992, the Akshardham temple was built in the dedication of Lord Swaminarayan. The credit for laying the foundation of the famous Akshardham temple at Gandhinahar goes to the Bochasanwasi Akshar-Purushottam Swaminarayan Sanstha (BAPS). The highlights of the temple consist of the seven feet long idol of Lord Swaminarayan, the chief deity at the Akshardham temple.
124;Heritage;Sidi Sayed Mosque;Located near Lal Darwaza in Ahmedabad, the mosque of Sidi Sayed is one of the most prominent mosques in the Ahmedabad city. Constructed in the year 1573, the mosque was established by Sidi Sayed, a slave of Sultan Ahmed Shah. Sidi Sayed mosque in Ahmedabad, India consists of ten semi circular windows, the appeal of which is accentuated by the splendid mesh covering them, which is more popularly known as 'Jali'.This monument has gained a worldwide recognition, due to its splendor. This skillfully carved mosque is truly the one of its kinds in the whole world. The Jali screen windows represent the Indo-Saracenic styling, which is admired by people all over the world. Consisting of delicately carved windows, the mosque is known for its stone tracery. The construction work of the Sidi Sayed mosque was taken up in the last year of the Sultanate rule in Gujarat.
125;Heritage;Ahmedabad Swaminarayan Temple;The first and foremost Swaminarayan temple was built at Kalupur in Ahmedabad. Being the most prominent temple, it is always thronged by people. People come from different parts of the country and congregate here in this temple to seek the blessings of the deity. Dedicated to Lord Swaminarayan, the temple boasts of its exquisite wooden carvings. Read further to know more about the Swami Narayan temple in Ahmedabad, India…The structural design of the Ahmedabad Swaminarayan temple is mesmerizing. The interiors and exteriors of the temple have been adorned with the typical Gujarati designs that depict different aspects of the Gujarati culture and lifestyle. The architectural style of the temple is commendable and truly has an unbeatable charm. Standing royally behind the huge gates across the Relief road, the Swaminarayan temple of Ahmedabad has beautifully decorated domes and galleries.
126;Heritage;Sarkhej Roza;A reminder of Ahmedabad’s majestic past, Sarkhej Roza is a mosque, tomb and palace complex dedicated to the memory of the famous sufi saint and Sultan Ahmed Shah’s spiritual advisor, Ahmed Khatti Ganj Baksh. The elegant yet dilapidated buildings cluster around a great tank and were often used as a retreat by several of Ahmedabad’s rulers. Comprising of grand prayer halls, stately domes, sprawling courtyards and geometric jalis that cast shifting patterns of light on the floor—the mosque is a true testament to brilliant architecture. It’s often known as Ahmedabad’s Acropolis due to French architect Le Corbusier’s famous comparison of the mosque’s design to that of the Acropolis at Athens in Greece.
127;Heritage;The Rani Sipri ki Masjid;THIS is near the Astoria Gate on the South-east side of the city. Unfortunately, its position prevents its being seen to advantage: it stands with its south-west corner to the street, which is much lower than the platform on which both it and the mausoleum stand. Râni Sipri was the wife of one of the sons of Ahmad Shah, and doubtless the daughter of some Hindu chief; and, as was usually the case, the tomb and its necessary adjunct the mosk were probably built by herself during her lifetime. They were completed Anno Hejira 835 (i.e. A.D.1432).The mosk is hall, open to the east, about 54 feet in lengh over all, and 20 feet wide. The roof is supported by two rows of six double columns, and the towers at the front corners are about 50 feet high.
128;Heritage;Rani Rupmati Mosque;Established by Sultan Mehmud Beghara and named after his Hindu wife, Rani Rupmati Mosque features splendid domes, carved galleries and beautiful minarets. The central dome is slightly elevated and hence illuminates the mosque by allowing natural light to come in and make it look spectacular.The feature that makes it stand apart from other mosques is the perfect blend of Hindu and Muslim architecture. One of the minarets of the mosque got destroyed in a calamity that hit Ahmedabad. However, the mosque’s ceiling and prayer hall have intricate carvings that add aesthetic value to the structure.Opening Closing Time : 9 am to 8 pm on all days of the week
129;Heritage;Vaishnodevi Temple;A replica of the original shrine of Vaishnodevi in Jammu, this temple is also thronged by devotees with equal reverence. It is 50 feet in diameter and the temple premises echo with chants of Jai Mata Di at any given time through the year.Opening Closing Time : 5 am to 10 pm
130;Gym;Body Fuel Gym; ADDRESS:  4th Floor, Shayona Tilak Complex 1, Gota Road, Near Vande Matram Cross Road, Opposite Aatam School, Ahemdabad - 382481.Phone number : 09714363560.Opening hours : Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday: 06:00 am to 12:00 pm & 05:00 pm to 09:30 pm; Sunday: 07:00 am to 10:00 am
